The School of Information is in Ann Arbor, Michigan on the U-M Central Campus.

By air: The Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW) is the major international airport closest to Ann Arbor. Other options include the Toledo Express Airport or the Bishop International Airport in Flint, Michigan.

Getting to campus: The campus information map will help you get to UMSI.

Parking and walking: Download the UMSI Walking and Parking Map for detailed information, including which UMSI units are housed in each of our four locations. 

 

North Quad's residential tower. There are students walking in the door.
UMSI at North Quad
105 S. State St.

Ann Arbor, MI 48109

Many UMSI offices and classroom spaces are in the North Quadrangle Residential and Academic Complex on S. State St. between Washington St. and Huron St. The visitor guide to UMSI at North Quad notes entrances to UMSI offices and the Ehrlicher Room.

Ramp access:

A ramp is located at the south entrance (near Thayer and E. Washington)

A ramp is located at the west entrance (near S State and Huron Street)

Elevator access:

Ehrlicher Room 3100 North Quad: Enter through the south entrance (near Thayer and E. Washington); the elevator is located on the left just past the entrance.

Academic Tower: Enter through the courtyard just west of the dining hall; the elevator is located inside the lobby on the left.

Handicap accessible doors:

Thayer and E. Washington provide entrance to the Housing Tower and the Ehrlicher Room.

Entrance from the covered walkway provides entrance into the Housing Tower and classrooms.

Doors at the entrance to the Academic Tower just west of the Dining Hall.

Doors at the west entrance (near S. State and Huron Street).

 

777 N. University. There is a Panera on the first floor. There are people crossing the street in front of the building and standing outside of it.
UMSI Engagement Center
777 N. University

Second floor, above Panera restaurant

Ann Arbor, MI 48109

The Career Development Office and the Engaged Learning Office have a collaborative workspace at the UMSI Engagement Center on the corner of North University and Thayer St. This office is on the second floor of the building, through the glass door to the right of the Panera Bread entrance. 

Parking for this location is available at the Thayer and the Palmer Parking Structures (U-M) and the Maynard Parking Structure (City of Ann Arbor).

Elevator access:  

Enter through the doors off N. University; the elevator is direct to the back of the entrance.
 

The door of 309 Maynard St., showing signs for UMSI and Hopcat.
UMSI Maynard Office
309 Maynard St.

Suite 205

Second floor, above Hopcat restaurant

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104

The School of Information has additional staff offices and meeting rooms on Maynard Street, two blocks southwest of North Quad. 

Public parking is immediately across the street in the Maynard Parking Structure. 

Elevator access:  

Enter through the doors off Maynard; the elevator is located just beyond the stairs.
 

The front of 333 Maynard St. showing a sign for UMSI.
UMSI at The Collegian Building 
333 Maynard St.

Fifth floor, above Aveda Institute

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104

The Office of Academic and Student Affairs and the UMSI Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) psychologist's office are in The Collegian Building, located between the Nickels Arcade and East William St. on Maynard. Public parking is nearby, in the Maynard Parking Structure.

Elevator access: 

Enter through the doors off Maynard; the elevator is to the back of the entrance on the left. The offices are located on the 5th floor.
 

The front of 715 N. University Avenue in Ann Arbor, showing a sign for UMSI on the second floor.
The Loft
715 N. University Ave. 

Second floor, above Mama Satto restaurant

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104

The Loft houses UMSI lecturer offices.