Organizational culture and community

Support for you to thrive
At UMSI, we believe in building a community where every member feels recognized, heard and valued. Central to this commitment is cultivating an organizational culture that enables all who study, teach and work here to reach their full potential.
The Office of Organizational Culture and Community (OCC) leads school-wide programming and initiatives that create and promote belonging, expand access to a UMSI education, and support a healthy and effective learning and working environment. Our focus on organizational culture ensures these efforts have longevity because they are embedded in the fabric of the school.
Our core structure is collaborative in nature. Working alongside other UMSI offices, we provide strategic guidance and develop sustainable programs to address the needs of the entire community: students, faculty and staff. We also strive to make a UMSI education possible for more people through educational outreach and collaboration with K-12 schools, Michigan community colleges and other U-M schools and colleges. 

What is organizational culture?
Organizational culture includes the values, beliefs, systems and norms that define a learning or working environment. To put it simply, it’s how the school feels to the people who are part of it. 
The OCC works to support and transform UMSI’s organizational culture by:
Creating and sustaining policies, procedures and programs that center the experience of community members
Addressing barriers to full participation in the UMSI community
Collaborating with units across the school to further UMSI’s mission of using information — with technology — to build a better world
Facilitating education and training for faculty, staff and students to develop their skills and support their roles

Highlights
Inclusive Leaders in Information Program
Introduced in 2024 through a partnership with UMSI’s Academic Programs and Student Life team, the Inclusive Leaders in Information program equips student leaders with the skills to encourage participation among their peers in the information science field. It is one of multiple Student Life leadership initiatives available at UMSI.
Culture and Community Committee 
This committee – composed of UMSI faculty, staff and students – works closely with the OCC and UMSI leadership to build an inclusive school culture and identify priority needs.
Workshops for UMSI staff and faculty 
Through workshops on universal design, equitable teaching and other key topics, we equip staff and faculty with essential skills to enrich their teaching and working environments. 
How do we build community?
The UMSI community is made up of students, faculty, staff and alumni who come from different areas of study, parts of the world, and socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds. Building community isn’t just about bringing people together on a campus or in an event space; it’s about making intentional decisions that enable a sense of belonging. We are committed to:

Expanding access to the study of information science
Fostering dialogue among community members who hold different perspectives
Creating meaningful programming and partnerships that broaden participation at UMSI

Highlights
UMSI Community College Summer Institute
https://www.si.umich.edu/programs/bachelor-science-information/new-transfers/umsi-community-college-summer-institute
Launched in 2017, CCSI allows Michigan community college students to explore information science at no cost, while providing resources to support them in the transfer process.
UMSI Community Read
Each winter, UMSI students, staff, faculty alumni join in shared conversations about a chosen book. Recent selections have included “Disability Visibility: First-Person Stories from the Twenty-First Century,” edited by Alice Wong, and “Viral Justice: How We Grow the Word We Want” by Ruha Benjamin. 
UMSI Lunar New Year Celebration
Cultural connection events like our annual Lunar New Year Celebration invite the UMSI community to come together in play and celebration — often with good food. 

Questions or feedback? 
Email Devon Keen, assistant dean for organizational culture and community, at devaca@umich.edu or umsi.occ.contact@umich.edu.

Educational outreach
UMSI’s educational outreach initiatives are designed to increase knowledge of the field of information science and support the promotion of a college-completing culture among K-20 students. Our goal is to approach outreach from multiple vantage points, connecting educators, school counselors, parents and families with UMSI faculty, staff, students and alumni.  
Through stand-alone programming and partnership with other U-M units, UMSI’s Office of Organizational Culture and Community works to broaden participation in the field of information science. We build sustained relationships with area schools, community colleges and educational organizations. We prioritize expanding access and knowledge of STEAM (science, technology, engineering, art and math) opportunities to student populations currently and historically underrepresented in higher education. 
See below for more information on current programming and initiatives:
1. Community College Summer Institute
For many reasons, some students choose to begin their journey into higher education at a community college. We have built partnerships with advisors at community colleges across Michigan to increase knowledge of the field of information and the BSI program while mitigating the perceived barriers to transferring. 
UMSI’s Community College Summer Institute (CCSI), hosted annually, gives community college students the opportunity to learn about the Bachelor of Science in Information (BSI) program, hear from faculty and engage with innovative topics in the field of information, and experience student life at the University of Michigan. Students who complete the institute receive a stipend, a transfer readiness certificate and priority consideration for BSI admission.  
2. K-12 Outreach Programming for Students and School Counselors
UMSI has extended outreach programming to K-12 students. The goal is to increase awareness of the field of information science and post-secondary opportunities in areas such as user experience, data science, library science and archives. This is in line with the Michigan Department of Education’s focus on helping students explore career pathways. 
High school students
Information Changes Everything! Camp - UMSI/Wolverine Pathways Partnership
UMSI hosts a high school summer camp in partnership with Wolverine Pathways.   
Goals:Create awareness of and excitement for the field of information.
Support students’ post-secondary decision-making by increasing awareness of the field of information science and the multiple pathways to the BSI.
Check out the 2024 camp agenda!
During camp, we provide students with the opportunity to experience how broad the field of information is. The presenters bring in diverse topics that are innovative and relevant to students' career interests. High school students learn about the multiple admission pathways to the BSI, and they get to speak to current UMSI students about their journey to college and the field of information.  
School counselor workshop
The school counselor workshop aims to build relationships with school counselors in the K-12 school system. School counselors are influencers in students' post-secondary decision-making process. They provide students with information and resources to help them navigate their career and college interests and options. In 2022, we launched the first school counselor workshop in person. Starting in 2023, the school counselor workshop pivoted to virtual mode to accommodate the demands of the school counselors' schedules. School counselors play a crucial leadership role on campus but often find their time stretched thin due to numerous responsibilities. Establishing collaborative partnerships between school counselors and higher education institutions, such as UMSI, can significantly enhance support for students in their college and career exploration efforts. By fostering these relationships, school counselors can extend their influence and better guide students toward innovative career pathways.
Attending this workshop equips school counselors with valuable tools to broaden their expertise and further impact their students’ future success. In addition, school counselors receive State Continuing Education Clock Hours (SCECHs), which are needed for renewal of their state certification. 
3. Collaborative Partnerships
UMSI extends its reach by collaborating with broader university efforts such as:
Center for Educational Outreach (CEO)
Wolverine Express
Wolverine Pathways
Michigan College Advising Corp
Michigan Louis Stokes alliance for Minority Participation - NxtGen Scholars
Women in Science & Engineering
National Center for Women in Information Technology (NCWIT) Aspirations in Computing
4. How to get involved
If you are interested in learning more about our educational outreach efforts or would like to initiate a program, please contact Sandra Lopez, K-20 educational outreach program manager, at sandralo@umich.edu.
UMSI Students, Faculty & Staff
The UMSI Office of Organizational Culture and Community (OCC) invites UMSI faculty, staff and students to partner with us in broadening participation in STEM and spreading awareness of the field of information science! This includes community college and K-12 outreach, community organizations and collaborations with campus partners. Please complete this interest form to be notified of future outreach opportunities.
UMSI Alumni
UMSI alumni interested in joining an educational outreach event or connecting with prospective transfer students, please contact Sandra Lopez, K-20 educational outreach program manager, at sandralo@umich.edu or fill out this form.  If you would like to make a donation to support UMSI educational outreach efforts, please contact the Development & Alumni Relations office at umsi.development@umich.edu.
Contact information
For more information about educational outreach, including questions and/or input about outreach initiatives, please contact Sandra Lopez, K-20 educational outreach program manager, at sandralo@umich.edu.

Culture and Community Committee
UMSI’s Culture and Community Committee is composed of a combination of UMSI faculty, staff and students. It is one of several groups within the school that focus on building an equitable and inclusive school culture and addressing priority needs in the UMSI community. The committee’s priorities are determined by the Assistant Dean for Organizational Culture and Community in consultation with the UMSI leadership team and informed by UMSI community feedback. 
Contact Information
For more information about the Culture and Community Committee, including questions about involvement or input on priorities, please email umsi.occ.contact@umich.edu.

People to contact
Devon Keen (she, her, hers)
- Assistant Dean for Organizational Culture and Community
- Contact information: adfocc@umich.edu
Sandra Lopez (she, her, hers) 
- K-20 Educational Outreach Program Manager
- Contact information: sandralo@umich.edu
Julia Dang (she, her, hers)
- Program Manager for Organizational Culture and Community 
- Contact information: dangj@umich.edu

Reporting and feedback
At UMSI, we are committed to fostering a thoughtful community working to actively embed the values of equity, accessibility and inclusion into our policies and daily practices. 

While we hope that your experiences at U-M and UMSI always reflect this commitment, we know — at times – they may not. If you are a witness to or experience conduct that discriminates, stereotypes, excludes, harasses or harms you or any person in our community based on an identity (race, ethnicity, national origin, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, disability, age, work status, or religion) we encourage you to speak with someone and to file a report of your concerns with the university. Please know that all U-M faculty, students and staff are protected from retaliation. There are multiple options for sharing or reporting concerns described below:

"I would like to talk to someone at UMSI about an incident or concern."
There are a number of individuals you can speak with about an incident or concerns. The Office of Organizational Culture and Community staff, in particular, are available to talk with you, listen without judgment, talk through options and recommend next steps and resources based on your wishes and specific concerns. 

You can send an email to umsi.occ.contact@umich.edu. 

We recognize that these experiences and concerns can impact mental health. Contact UMSI’s embedded CAPS counselor for confidential support with mental health concerns.

Ashley Evearitt, Embedded CAPS Psychologist, evearitt@umich.edu
Sexual & Gender Based Misconduct Reporting
If your concern is regarding sexual & gender based misconduct, we are also here to provide support, listen and connect you to resources; however, OCC staff (as well as other UMSI faculty and staff) have additional reporting obligations. 

Discrimination concerns connected to an Academic Dispute or Academic Grievance
If you are a student and your discrimination concern is connected to an academic dispute or academic grievance, we encourage you to also speak with an academic advisor and review the academic dispute policy for your degree program. Based on your wishes, we can help connect you with the Office of Academic and Student Affairs (OASA) and/or connect you with further resources. 

"I would like to share feedback and/or concerns with UMSI anonymously."
UMSI students, faculty and staff may provide anonymous feedback through this secure form. All entries are retrieved and reviewed by the Office of Organizational Culture and Community (OCC). Depending on the nature of the feedback, we will consult with the Culture and Community Committee for input and recommendations regarding follow-up. 

Examples of possible anonymous feedback include:

Recommendations for community programming and/or initiatives
Feedback on OCC activities or events
Questions about the OCC or Committee organization or structure
Concerns re: UMSI community or organizational culture (e.g. social environment, sense of belonging etc.)
https://umich.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3kn47hHb8v2NavQ

